BRADLEY MANNING-- ACCUSED OF THE
BIGGEST LEAK OF CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION IN U.S. HISTORY--
SAID THE SOLDIER IS A
WHISTLEBLOWER, NOT A TRAITOR.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
ON THE "NEWSHR" TOUONIGHT, BOTH
THE PROSECUTION AND THE DEFENSE
HAVE MADE CLOSING ARGUMENTS.
NOW THE SOLDIER'S FATE IS IN THE
HANDS OF A JUDGE.
WE GET AN UPDATE.
>> Woodruff: THEN, HOUSTON-BASED
HALLIBURTON ADMITTED TO
DESTROYING EVIDENCE AFTER THE
2010 GULF OIL SPILL.
HARI SREENIVASAN LOOKS AT THE
IMPLICATIONS FOR THE ENERGY
SERVICES COMPANY AND OIL GIANT
B.P.
>> Brown: PROTESTERS TOOK TO THE
STREETS IN TWO NORTH AFRICAN
COUNTRIES TODAY.
MARGARET WARNER FILLS US IN ON
THE LATEST IN EGYPT, WITH
COHARGES AGAINST THE
FORMER PRESIDENT AND IN TUNISIA,
AFTER ANOTHER POLITICAL
ASSASSINATION.
>> Woodruff: THE FUKUSHIMA
NUCLEAR PLANT-- CRIPPLED BY AN
EARTHQUAKE AND TSUNAMI TWO YEARS
AGO-- IS LEAKING CONTAMINATED
WATER INTO THE SEA.
WE GEA RAT RE GLIMPSE INSIDE THE
STILL RADIOACTIVE AREA.
>> THE REGALIA IN WHICH I'M NOW
STANDING INCLUNG TDIHIS, A DOSE
METER, WHICH WILL GIVE MY
ACCUMULATED RADIATION DOSE
ACROSS THE TIME WERE INSIDE THE
EXCLUSION ZONE.
>> Brown: PLUS, MARK SHIELDS AND
DAVID BROOKS ANALYZE THE WEEK'S
NEWS.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S NEWSHOUR.
>> Brown: THE DEFENSE GOT ITS
FINAL SAY TODAY, FOR THE SOLDIER
WHO MADE A MASSIVE DISCLOSURE OF
SECRET DOCUMENTS.
NOW, THE SO-CALLED "WIKILEAKS
CASE" GOES TO A MILITARY JUDGE.
AS ARMY PRIVATE FIRST CLASS
BRADLEY MANNING ARRIVED AT FORT
MEADE, MARYLAND, THIS MORNING A
HANDFUL OF SUPPORTERS STOOD BY,
SOME WEARING T-SHIRTS THAT SAID
"TRUTH".
INSIDE, HIS ATTORNEY ARGUED
MANNING WANTED THE WORLD TO KNOW
THE TRUTH OF U.S. ACTIONS IN
IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN.
THE 25-YEAR-OLD INTELLIGENCE
ANALYST STANDS ACCUSED OF THE
BIGGEST LEAK OF CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION IN U.S. HISTORY,
RELEASING MORE THAN 700,000
CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS TO THE
ANTI-SECRECY WEBSITE WIKILEAKS.
MANNING WAS ARRESTED IN MAY 2010
WHILE SERVING IN IRAQ, AND
CHARGED WITH 21 OFFENSES.
LAST FEBRUARY, HE PLEADED GUILTY
TO SOME OF THE LESSER CHARGES,
INCLUDING MISUSE OF CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION.
THE COURT MARTIAL ON THE
REMAINING OFFENSES BEGAN JUNE 3.
A CONVICTION ON THE MOST
SERIOUS, "AIDING THE ENEMY,"
COULD SEND HIM TO PRISON FOR
LIFE.
IN THEIR CLOSING ARGUMENTS
YESTERDAY, PROSECUTORS ARGUED
MANNING WAS NO NAIVE SOLDIER,
BUT A TRAITOR.
THE DEFENSE INSISTED TODAY HE
SHOULD BE SEEN AS A
WHISTLEBLOWER.
CHARLIE SAVAGE OF THE "NEW YORK
TIMES" WAS IN THE COURT ROOM FOR
THE PAST TWO DAYS.
HE JOINS US NOW.
WELCOME BACK.
SO DUELING PORTRAITS OF BRADLEY
MANNING ARE BEING PUT FORTH.
TELL US ABOUT THE MANNING YOU
HEARD PRESENTED BY THE DEFENSE
TODAY.
>> SURE.
WELL, SO, AS YOUR VIEWERS
PROBABLY REMEMBER, BRADLEY
MANNING HAS ALREADY BASICALLY
CONFESSED TO BEING WIKILEAKS
SOURCE AND SO MOST OF THE FACTS
IN THIS CASE ARE NOT IN DISPUTE.
HE IS THE GUY WHO SENT THEM ALL
THOSE DOCUMENTS ABOUT TOPICS
THAT VAULTED THEM INTO WORLD
FAME IN 2010.
THE QUESTION IS HOW DO WE
UNDERSTAND THAT.
WAS HE A RECKLESS ANARCHIST AND
A TRADER AS THE PROSECUTION SAID
YESTERDAY AND TODAY IN ITS
CLOSING ARGUMENTS THE DEFENSE
HAD A VERY DIFFERENT PORTRAIT TO
SHOW OF A YOUNG MAN WHO THEY
SAID WAS NAIVE, PERHAPS, BUT
WELL INTENTIONED, A
WHISTLE-BLOWER, SOMEONE WHO WAS
CONCERNED ABOUT ALL PEOPLE AND
WANTED TO SELECT DOCUMENT SETS
THAT WOULD HELP SPREAD DEBATE
AROUND THE WORLD LEAD TO CHANGE
FOR THE BETTER.
>> Brown: THEY ALSO, I GATHER,
WERE ARGUING THAT HE WAS
SELECTIVE IN WHAT HE PUT OUT.
RIGHT?
HE COULD HAVE DONE A LOT MORE.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
THIS IS ANOTHER WAY IN WHICH THE
BASIC FACTS THAT HE RELEASED
THESE 700,000 DOCUMENTS IS NOT
IN DISPUTE AND THE QUESTION IS
HOW DO WE UNDERSTAND THAT?
SO THE PROSECUTION SAYS THIS IS
MASSIVE.
700,000 DOCUMENTS.
HE COULDN'T POSSIBLY HAVE EVEN
KNOWN WHAT HE WAS SENDING TO
WIKILEAKS.
TODAY WE HEAR FROM THE DEFENSE
BUT THIS IS A GUY WHO HAD ACCESS
TO MILLIONS, PROBABLY TENS OF
MILLIONS OF RECORD BECAUSE HE
HAD UNFETTERED ACCESS TO THE
SECRET COMPUTER SYSTEM AS AN
ALL-SOURCE INTELLIGENCE ONLY
ITSELF.
SO IF HE WAS JUST TRYING TO
WILLY-NILLY RELEASE EVERYTHING
FOR THE FUN OF SPREADING
ANARCHY, AS THE PROSECUTION
SAID, HE WOULD HAVE RELEASED FAR
MORE THAN 700,000.
HE WOULD HAVE RELEASED MILLIONS
AND THE FACT THAT HE DIDN'T, THE
FACT THAT HE STAYED AWAY FROM
DATABASES LIKE REPORTS OF
CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES AND SO
FORTH SHOWS THAT HE WAS, THE
DEFENSE SAYS, IN FACT SELECTIVE.
>> Brown: AND THE PRAOUS'S
VERSIOPROSECUTION'SVERSION IS D.
WHAT KIND OF EVIDENCE WERE THEY
POINTING TO TO SAY YES, IN FACT,
NATIONAL SECURITY HAS BEEN
DAMAGED?
>> WELL, FOR EXAMPLE, ONE OF THE
TWO LARGEST DOCUMENT SETS ARE
THE SIGNIFICANT ACTIVITY REPORTS
FROM THE WAR IN AFGHANISTAN AND
THE WAR IN IRAQ.
THESE ARE SORT OF FRONT-LINE
INCIDENT REPORTS.
THIS HAPPENED, THIS I.E.D. BLEW
UP, THIS SMALL SCALE THING
HAPPENED AND YOU WRITE UP A
REPORT IF YOU'RE IN THAT UNIT
AND YOU FILE THAT AND THERE'S
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF THESE
THINGS THAT PRESENT SORT OF A
GRANULAR ACCOUNT OF WHAT
HAPPENED IN THOSE TWO WARS.
AND HIS RELEASE OF THOSE THINGS
BROUGHT -- SHED NEW LIGHT ON THE
TRUE LEVEL OF -- OR AT LEAST
HIGHER LEVELS THAT OFFICIAL
ESTIMATES OF CIVILIAN CASUALTIES
AND SO FORTH.
SO HE HAS SAID AND HIS DEFENSE
LAWYERS HAVE SAID THIS IS A VERY
MILD THING TO RELEASE BECAUSE
THESE ARE HISTORICAL DOCUMENTS.
AFTER A FEW DAYS THE INCIDENT IS
OVER, THE TROOPS HAVE LEFT,
THERE'S NOTHING IN THESE THAT'S
GOING TO CAUSE HARM.
AND THE PROSECUTION SAYS NO,
THESE THINGS SHOW OUR TACTICS,
OUR PROTOCOLS, HOW WE HANDLE
RESPONSES TO ROADSIDE BOMBINGS
AND SO FORTH AND ONCE THE ENEMY
CAN HAVE THIS MASSIVE DATA SET
THEY CAN MINE THAT DATA TO
FIGURE OUT WHAT OUR PROCEDURES
ARE AND USE THOSE AGAINST US.
SO THAT'S ANOTHER SENSE IN WHICH
TWO DIFFERENT SPINS ON THE VERY
SAME SET OF FACTS.
>> Brown: AND WHAT ABOUT
WIKILEAKS ITSELF?
BECAUSE FROM THE VERY BEGINNING
OF COURSE HOW ONE LOOKS AT
WIKILEAKS HAS PLAYED A BIG ROLE,
WHETHER IT'S A NEWS ORGANIZATION
OR WHAT.
SO HOW MUCH HAS THAT PLAYED INTO
THE FINAL ARGUMENTS HERE?
>> WELL, IT PLAYS A LOT INTO IT,
BECAUSE THE MOST CONTROVERSIAL
CHARGE FACING BRADLEY MANNING IS
THAT BY GIVING INFORMATION TO
WIKILEAKS FOR PUBLICATION ON THE
INTERNET HE INDIRECTLY AIDED THE
ENEMY.
BECAUSE WHEN YOU PUBLISH
INFORMATION ONLINE THE WHOLE
WORLD CAN SEE IT AND THE WHOLE
WORLD INCLUDES ENEMIES LIKE AL
QAEDA.
AND THAT HAS A LOT OF
IMPLICATIONS FOR INVESTIGATIVE
JOURNALISM BECAUSE NEWS
ORGANIZATIONS, TRADITIONAL NEWS
ORGANIZATIONS LIKE MINE, THE
"NEW YORK TIMES," ALSO TAKE
INFORMATION AND PUBLISH IT ON
THE INTERNET.
SO IF GIVING INFORMATION TO
ANOTHER ENTITY FOR PUBLICATION
ONLINE IS AIDING THE ENEMY, IT'S
NOT CLEAR WHAT THE LINE IS
BETWEEN THE "NEW YORK TIMES" AND
WIKILEAKS.
AND SO THE PROSECUTION WAS
TRYING TO DRAW THAT LINE.
AS WELL, IF HE'D GIVEN THE
INFORMATION TO THE "NEW YORK
TIMES" OR THE "GUARDIAN" OR DER
SPIEGEL, THAT WOULD HAVE A
CRIME, BUT THAT'S NOT THIS.
WIKILEAKS WAS IN THE BUSINESS OF
THIS WHOLESALE BULK POSTING OF
DOCUMENTS, THAT'S NOT
JOURNALISM.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING DIFFERENT,
DON'T WORRY, JUDGE, ABOUT THE
NOTION THAT THIS UNPRECEDENTED
AIDING THE ENEMY CHARGE MAY
SOMEHOW CRIPPLE INVESTIGATIVE
JOURNALISM GOING FORWARD IF THIS
ESTABLISHES A PRESIDENT.
AND THE DEFENSE DID NOT WANT
THAT SEPARATION IN THE JUDGE'S
MIND AT ALL.
IT EMPHASIZED GREATLY WIKILEAKS
IS THE SAME AS THE "NEW YORK
TIMES" FOR LEGAL PURPOSES IN
THIS MATTER.
IT'S THE SAME AS T GARDEN, THE
SAME AS DER SPIEGEL.
THEY WERE ENGAGED IN BRINGING
INFORMATION TO LIGHT, PUBLISHING
IT FOR THE WORLD TO SEE, THE
FACT THAT SOME ENEMIES ARE ALSO
IN THE WORLD AND HAVE INTERNET
CONNECTION CANS NOT BE ENOUGH,
THE DEFENSE SAYS, FOR THE LEAKER
TO BE GUILTY OF AIDING THE ENEMY
BECAUSE IF IT IS WE'RE IN A
WHOLE NEW WORLD IN TERMS OF WHAT
INVESTIGATIVE JOURNALISM CAN DO
WITH ITS SOURCING.
>> Brown: BRIEFLY, CHARPLY,
THAT AIDING THE ENEMY CHARGE,
THE JUDGE DECIDED TO KEEP THAT
ON THE TABLE.
WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?
HAS SHE MADE CLEAR WHEN SHE'S
GOING TO DECIDE THIS AND -- IN
ADDITION TO THAT, WHAT OTHER
CHARS ISGE -- WHAT'S THE MOST
IMPORTANT CHARGES?
>> WELL, AS I JUST MENTIONED, I
THINK THE AIDING THE ENEMY
CHARGE IS THE MOST IMPORTANT
ONE.
THAT COULD SET A PRECEDENT THAT
CHANGES A LOT OF THINGS GOING
FORWARD IN THIS COUNTRY.
BEYOND THAT, THE ESPIONAGE ACT
CHARGE, SEVERAL OF THOSE, ARE
THE MOST SEVERE ONES HE'S
FACING.
HE ALSO HAS SOME THEFT CHARGES
AND SOME OTHER THINGS THAT ARE
AT A MORE SIGNIFICANT LEVEL THAN
WHAT HE HAS OFFERED OR ALREADY
PLED GUILTY TO UNILATERALLY
BEFORE THIS TRIAL BEGAN.
THE JUDGE HAS NOT SAID WHEN SHE
WILL RULE.
I IMAGINE HAVING OBSERVED HER
BEHAVIOR THAT SHE'S GOING TO
WRITE A LENGTHY STATEMENT OF
FACTS IN LAW AND FINDINGS THAT
SHE'LL READ ALOUD WHEN SHE DOES
DELIVER THE VERDICT AND HAY THAT
MAY TAKE HER SOME TIME IF SHE
HADN'T ALREADY BEEN WORKING ON
IT.
SO WE'LL FIND OUT.
>> Pelley: CHARLIEAVA SGE OF
THE "NEW YORK TIMES."
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE "NEWSHOUR": EVIDENCE
DESOYEDTR AFTER THE B.P. OIL
SPILL; PROTESTS IN EGYPT AND
TUNISIA; INSIDE A RADIOACTIVE
TOWN.
PLUS, MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID
BROOKS.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S KWAME HOLMAN.
>> Holman: THE CLEVELAND MAN
ACCUSED OF HOLDING THREE WOMEN
CAPTIVE-- FOR TEN YEARS OR MORE-
- AGREED TO A DEAL TODAY THAT
AVOIDS THE DEATH PENALTY.
ARIEL CASTRO PLEADED GUILTY TO
MORE THAN 900 CRIMINAL COUNTS,
INCLUDING KIDNAPPING, RAPE, AND
ATTEMPTED MURDER.
CASTRO TOLD JUDGE MICHAEL RUSSO
HE WILL ACCEPT A SENTENCE OF
LIFE IN PRISON WITHOUT PAROLE,
PLUS 1,000 YEARS.
>> FINALLY, SIR, AGAIN, DO YOU
UNDERSTAND, MR. CASTRO, THAT
UPON ENTERING THIS PLEA YOU WILL
NEVER BE RELEASED FROM PRISON.
>> I DO UNDERSTAND THAT AND I
STATED THAT TO DAVE -- WHAT'S
HIS LAST NAME?
>> THE AGENT.
>> THE AGENT, DAVE, AT SEX
CRIMES THAT I KNEW I WAS GOING
TO GET PRETTY MUCH THE BOOK
THROWN AT ME.
>> Holman: THE JUDGE THEN
ACCEPTED THE PLEAS.
AFTERWARD PROSECUTOR TIMOTHY
McGINTY TALKED ABOUT THE
OUTCOME.
>> BY THE TERMS OF THIS
AGREEMENT, THIS MAN IS GOING TO
PRISON FOR THE REST OF HIS LIFE,
IS NEVER COMING OUT EXCEPT
NAILED IN A BOX OR A -- AN ASH
CAN.
HE'S NOT STEPPING OUT.
HE'S GOING DOWN BROKE, HE'S
LEAVING HIS ASSETS BEHIND AND
THAT'S JUSTICE.
>> Holman: CASTRO'S THREE
VICTIMS-- AMANDA BERRY, GINA
DEJESUS AND MICHELLE KNIGHT HAVE
REMAINED OUT OF PUBLIC VIEW.
THEY ISSUED A STATEMENT SAYING
THEY WERE SATISFIED WITH THE
PLEA DEAL.
CASTRO'S FORMAL SENTENCING IS
SCHEDULED FOR AUGUST 1.
THE PROSECUTION RESTED TODAY IN
THE FEDERAL RACKETEERING TRIAL
OF JAMES WHITEY BULGER, THE
REPUTED BOSTON CRIME BOSS.
HE'S CHARGED WITH INVOLVEMENT IN
19 MURDERS, EXTORTION, AND MONEY
LAUNDERING.
BULGER FLED BOSTON IN 1994.
HE WAS CAPTURED IN CALIFORNIA
TWO YEARS AGO.
HIS DEFENSE IS EXPECTED TO BEGIN
ITS CASE MONDAY.
THE MOTHER OF TRAYVON MARTIN IS
CALLING FOR ACTION TO REPEAL
"STAND YOUR GROUND" SELF-DEFENSE
LAWS.
SYBRINA FULTON TOLD THE NATIONAL
URBAN LEAGUE TODAY SHE BLAMES
FLORIDA'S LAW FOR THE ACQUITTAL
OF GEORGE ZIMMERMAN, THE MAN WHO
SHOT MARTIN.
IN AN ABC INTERVIEW, THE ONLY
NON-WHITE JUROR IN THE TRIAL
SAID SHE INITIALLY VOTED TO
CONVICT ON SECOND DEGREE MURDER,
BUT FINALLY DECIDED THERE WASN'T
ENOUGH EVIDENCE.
>> I WANT TRAYVON'S MOM TO KNOW
THAT I'M HURTING AND IF SHE
THOUGHT THAT NOBODY CARED ABOUT
HER SONIC SPEAK FOR MYSELF, I DO
CARE.
I COULDN'T DO ANYTHING ABOUT IT.
AND I FELT LIKE I LET A LOT OF
PEOPLE DOWN.
IF I WOULD HAVE USED MY HEART I
PROBABLY WOULD HAVE WENT A HUNG
JURY.
>> Holman: ANOTHER JUROR HAS
SAID SHE BELIEVED ZIMMERMAN
ACTED TO PROTECT HIMSELF AFTER
MARTIN ATTACKED HIM.
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY LEAKER
EDWARD SNOWDEN WILL NOT FACE THE
DEATH PENALTY FOR ANYTHING HE'S
DONE IF HE RETURNS TO THE UNITED
STATES.
ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC HOLDER
GAVE THAT ASSURANCE TO THE
RUSSIAN JUSTICE MINISTER
IN A LETTER RELEASED TODAY.
SNOWDEN HAS SPENT THE PAST MONTH
IN THE TRANSIT ZONE OF A MOSCOW
AIRPORT.
HE'S SEEKING ASYLUM IN RUSSIA.
IN PAKISTAN, AT LEAST 39 PEOPLE
WERE KILLED TODAY WHEN A PAIR OF
BOMBS EXPLODED IN A BUSY MARKET.
IT HAPPENED IN THE KURRAM TRIBAL
AREA IN THE NORTH, BORDERING
AFGHANISTAN.
TALIBAN MILITANTS AND GOVERNMENT
FORCES HAVE BATTLED IN THE AREA
FOR YEARS.
IN ADDITION TO THE DEAD, TODAY'S
ATTACK WOUNDED AT LEAST 70
PEOPLE.
POLICE IN SPAIN HAVE ARRESTED
THE MAN AT THE CONTROLS OF A
TRAIN THAT DERAILED THIS WEEK,
KILLING AT LEAST 78 PEOPLE.
THEY ALSO BEGAN EXAMINING THE
TRAIN'S BLACK BOX TODAY, TO
DETERMINE WHY IT WAS TRAVELING
AT SUCH HIGH SPEED.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM JOHN RAY
OF "INDEPENDENT TELEVISION
NEWS."
>> Reporter: FACE BLOODIED,
SHAKEN AND SHATTERED, HE IS
HELPED FROM THE WRECKAGE OF HIS
OWN TRAIN.
THIS IS THE DRIVER, NOW ACCUSED
OF CAUSING THE CRASH THAT KILLED
AND INJURED SO MANY OF HIS
PASSENGERS.
HER NECK BROKEN, NATALIA MAIZ
THEY ARE CLEARING THE LINE AND
SEARCHING FOR CLUES.
INVESTIGATORS KNOW IT WAS SPEED
THAT LED TO CATASTROPHE.
THEIR INQUIRY IS LEADING SWIFTLY
TO JUST ONE MAN.
THE CRASH SITE IS NOW A CRIME
SCENE AND THE PRIME SUSPECT IS
THE DRIVER.
OFFICIALLY HE HAS BEEN ARRESTED.
UNOFFICIALLY, A VERY PUBLIC
TRIAL IS ALREADY UNDERWAY.
THE MAN BEHIND THE CONTROLS,
FRANCISCO JOSE GARZON, HAD BEEN
DRIVING TRAINS FOR TEN YEARS.
BUT WHEN IT CAME TO THE SHARP
BEND NEAR SANTIAGO DE
COMPOSTELA, HE WAS SPEEDING AT
MORE THAN TWICE THE 50 MILES PER
HOUR LIMIT.
SECONDS AFTER THE IMPACT, HE
RADIOED: "I HAVE MESSED IT UP.
I WANT TO DIE.
I HAVE COME OFF THE TRACK.
WHAT AM I GOING TO DO? "
SUSPICION HASLSO  ABEEN AROUSED
BY HIS FACEBOOK PAGE.
IN MARCH LAST YEAR, HE POSTED A
PICTURE OF A SPEEDOMETER AS HIS
TRAIN REACHED 200 KILOMETERS AN
HOUR.
ALONGSIDE IT HE WROTE, " WHAT
JOY IT WOULD BE TO GET LEVEL
WITH THE POLICE AND GO PAST THEM
MAKING THEIR SPEED GUNS GO OFF."
THE TOWN REMAINS IN MOURNING
WHERE RELATIVES OF THE MISSING
FIND SMALL COMFORTS AS THEY WAIT
FOR CONFIRMATION OF THE WORST.
MORE TEARS WILL BE SHED.
AT THE HOSPITAL WHERE STAFF
STOOD IN SILENCE TO RESPECT THE
DEAD, THERE ARE MANY STILL
DANGEROUSLY ILL.
THE DRIVER LIES IN THE SAME
HOSPITAL UNDER POLICE GUARD.
>> Holman: THE PRESIDENT OF THE
RAILWAY COMPANY SAID THE DRIVER
HAD AN EXHAUSTIVE UNDERSTANDING
OF THE RAIL LINE.
A U.S. MAJOR HEDGE FUND S.A.C.
CAPITAL ADVISORS PLEADED NOT
GUILTY TODAY TO FEDERAL CRIMINAL
CHARGES INVOLVING INSIDER
TRADING.
THE PLEA CAME A DAY AFTER THE
FIRM WAS INDICTED CRIMINALLY FOR
WIRE AND SECURITIES FRAUD.
IT ALLEGEDLY EARNED MILLIONS OF
DOLLARS ON ILLEGAL TRADES OVER A
10-YEAR PERIOD.
THE HEAD OF S.A.C., BILLIONAIRE
STEVEN COHEN, IS FACING CIVIL
CHARGES OF FAILING TO PREVENT
INSIDER TRADING.
THE MAYOR OF SAN DIEGO, BOB
FILNER, SAYS HE'S GOING TO START
THERAPY, AMID GROWING
CLAIMS HE SEXUALLY HARASSED
WOMEN.
FILNER APOLOGIZED TODAY, AFTER
SEVERAL WOMEN SAID HE KISSED AND
GROPED THEM, AND PUT THEM IN
HEADLOCKS.
THE FORMER DEMOCRATIC
CONGRESSMAN SAID HE WILL ATTEND
TWO WEEKS OF INTENSIVE
COUNSELING.
>> I MUST BECOME A BETTER
PERSON.
AND MY HOPE IS HAT TBECOMING A
BETTER PERSON I PUT MYSELF IN A
POSITION TO SOMEDAY BE FORGIVEN.
HOWEVER BEFORE I EVEN ASK-
BEFORE I EVEN THINK OF ASKING
FOR FORGIVENESS I NEED TO
DEMONSTRATE THAT MY BEHAVIOR HAS
CHANGED.
>> Holman: FILNER IS LESS THAN
EIGHT MONTHS INTO A FOUR-YEAR
TERM AS MAYOR.
HE REJECTED CALLS FOR HIS
RESIGNATION.
THE SWISS BANK U.B.S. WILL PAY
$885 MILLION TO SETTLE CLAIMS
THAT IT MISREPRESENTED THE
SAFETY OF MORTGAGE-BACKED
SECURITIES DURING THE U.S.
HOUSING BUBBLE.
WHEN THE BUBBLE BURST, THE VALUE
OF THE SECURITIES LARGELY
EVAPORATED.
UNDER THE AGREEMENT-- ANNOUNCED
LAST NIGHT-- U.B.S. WILL MAKE
PAYMENTS TO THE GOVERENT-NM
SPONSORED MORTGAGE GIANTS FANNIE
MAE A FRENDDDIE MAC.
ON WALL STREET, STOCKS ENDED THE
DAY ABOUT WHERE THEY BEGAN.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED THREE POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,558.
THE NASDAQ ROSE NEARLY EIGHT
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 3,613.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW GAINED A
0.1%.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 0.7%.
THE LINCOLN MEMORIAL IN
WASHINGTON WAS TEMPORARILY
CLOSED TODAY AFTER BEING
VANDALIZED.
OVERNIGHT, SOMEONE SPLASHED
LIGHT GREEN PAINT ACROSS PARTS
OF THE STATUE OF
THE NATION'S 16th PRESIDENT,
PLUS THE PEDESTAL AND THE FLOOR.
CREWS WORKED THROUGHOUT THE DAY
TO CLEAN OFF THE PAINT.
A SPOKESWOMAN FOR THE NATIONAL
PARK SERVICE SAID LUCKILY, THE
DAMAGE IS NOT PERMANENT.
>> THESE NATIONAL TREASURES ARE
-- NEED TO BE PROTECTED.
PEOPLE COME FROM ALL OVER THE
WORLD TO SEE THEM AND, YOU KNOW,
IT'S JUST REALLY DISTURBING THAT
SOMEONE WOULD DO THIS.
AND, YOU KNOW, I'M NOT SURE WHAT
ELSE TO SAY EXCEPT THE PARKS
SERVICES TAKES GREAT PRIDE IN
TAKING CARE OF THESE NATIONAL
ICONS AND ANYTHING LIKE THIS IS
DEVASTATING TO US.
>> Holman: PARK POLICE ARE
REVIEWING SECURITY CAMERA VIDEO
FROM THE SCENE TO TRY TO
IDENTIFY THE VANDAL.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JUDY.
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE UNREST
IN NORTH AFRICA, MORE THAN TWO
YEARS AFTER THE ARAB SPRING.
TODAY BOTH ISLAMIST AND SECULAR
FORCES TOOK TO THE STREETS OF
TUNISIA AND EGYPT.
AT LEAST TWO EGYPTIAN PROTESTERS
DIED IN CLASHES OUTSIDE A MOSQUE
IN THE COASTAL CITY OF
ALEXANDRIA.
MARGARET WARNER HAS THE STORY.
>> Warner: MUSIC AND PRO-
MILITARY CHANTS FILLED TAHRIR
SQUARE TODAY, AND ARMY
HELICOPTERS BUZZED OVERHEAD.
AS TENS OF THOUSANDS OF
EGYPTIANS TURNED OUT TO ENDORSE
GENERAL ABDEL-FATTAH AL-SISI AND
THE MILITARY'S OUSTER OF
ISLAMIST PRESIDENT MOHAMMED
MORSI ON JULY 3.
>> ( translated ): I HAVE COME
TO SUPPORT THE DECISION OF
GENERAL AL-SISI.
HAS DONE HAS STOPPED US FROM
WORKING.
WE DON'T HAVE ANY MONEY TO SPEND
ON OUR FAMILIES.
WE HAVE NO WORK.
>> Warner: AL-SISI HAD URGED A
HUGE TURNOUT, SAYING IT WOULD
GIVE HIM A MANDATE AGAINST
VIOLENCE AND TERRORISM.
ISLAMISTS CALLED THEIR OWN MASS
DEMONSTRATIONS TOO.
WHILE BOTH WERE GENERALLY
PEACEFUL, FIGHTING LED TO DEATHS
AND INJURIES IN SEVERAL CITIES.
THERE WAS ALSO NEW TENSION OVER
MORSI'S FATE.
STATE PROSECUTORS ANNOUNCED
THEY'RE INVESTIGATING HIM ON
CHARGES OF MURDER AND PLOTTING
WITH THE PALESTINIAN MILITANT
GROUP HAMAS.
IN HIS ESCAPE IN A MASS JAIL
BREAK IN 2011 THAT KILLED 14
PRISON GUARDS.
THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD ACCUSED
THE STATE OF LOOKING FOR AN
EXCUSE TO CRACK DOWN ON ITS
GROUP.
>> ( translated ): THIS IS AN
INVALID ACCUSATION.
THEY WANT TO STIR DISCORD IN THE
SOCIETY AND TO INSTIGATE
VIOLENCE AMONGST THE
DEMONSTRATORS.
BUT WE INSIST THAT OUR MILLION-
PERSON MARCH, THE FRIDAY OF
DISCERNMENT, IS A PEACEFUL
PROTEST, AND WE WILL NOT
IT IS THE RIGHT OF EVERY
EGYPTIAN TO EXPRESS THEIR POINT
OF VIEW PEACEFULLY AND WITHOUT
VIOLENCE.
>> Warner: THE CHARGES AND
COUNTER-CHARGES PLAYED OUT AS AN
INTERIM GOVERNMENT WORKS ON A
NEW CONSTITUTION AND PLANS FOR
NEW ELECTIONS, EARLY NEXT YEAR.
SO FAR, ISLAMISTS HAVE REFUSED
TO TAKE PART.
FOR ITS PART, THE U.S. HAS NOT
CALLED WHAT HAPPENED IN EGYPT A
COUP, WHICH WOULD FORCE A HALT
TO $1.5 BILLION IN AID TO THAT
COUNTRY.
>> I'M NOT GOING TO GIVE IT A
ONE WORD NAME.
>> Warner: TODAY, THE STATE
DEPARTMENT CONFIRMED THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION DOES NOT PLAN TO
RULE ON THAT QUESTION.
>> LET ME JUST TRY TO MAKE THIS
IMPORTANT POINT.
THE LEGAL DECISION THAT WAS MADE
WAS THAT WE HAVE REVIEWED AND WE
DO NOT NEED TO MAKE A PUBLIC
DETERMINATION ON WHETHER OR NOT
A COUP HAPPENED OR NOT.
>> Warner: BUT WEDNESDAY THE
ADMINISTRATION DID HALT DELIVERY
OF FOUR F-16 FIGHTERS JETS TO
THE EGYPTIAN AIR FORCE.
MEANWHILE, TUNISIA-- BIRTHPLACEO
AND A HALF YEARS AGO-- ALSO
FACED NEW UNREST.
THOUSANDS PROTESTED OVERNIGHT
AFTER LEFTIST POLITICIAN MOHAMED
BRAHMI WAS ASSASSINATED.
POLICE SAY HE WAS SHOT 14 TIMES
WITH THE SAME PISTOL THAT KILLED
ANOTHER LIBERAL LEADER IN
FEBRUARY.
BRAHMI'S WIDOW BLAMED THE
ELECTED GOVERNMENT.
>> ( translated ): THIS IS AN
EPISODE OF STATE VIOLENCE
THIS VIOLENCE HAPPENING IN
TUNISIA IS NOT A SIMPLE STREET
FIGHT BETWEEN TWO PARTIES.
THIS IS A PREMEDITATED VIOLENCE
BROUGHT ABOUT BY THE GOVERNMENT.
>> Warner: TUNISIA IS LED BY THE
ISLAMIST ENNAHDA PARTY, IN
COALITION WITH OTHER GROUPS.
ITS SUPPORTERS MARCHED TODAY
TOO, DEFENDING THE GOVERNMENT.
>> Woodruff: AND MARGARET IS
HERE WITH ME FOR MORE.
SO MARGARET, FIRST ON EGYPT.
WITH THE GOVERNMENT CALLING AND
THE GENERALS, THE MILITARY
LEADERSHIP CALLING ON PEOPLE TO
GO OUT ON THE STREET, STAND UP
TO THE ISLAMISTS, WHAT ARE THEY
TRYING TO ACCOMPLISH?
>> THE GOVERNMENT AND MILITARY,
JUDY, SAY ESSENTIALLY THEY'RE
TRYING TO SAY TO THE
BROTHERHOOD, LOOK, IT'S OVER,
GET W T PROGRAM, JOIN IN
THIS TRANSITION THAT THE
MILITARY'S LAID OUT.
SEVERAL MONTHS TO A NEW
CONSTITUTION AND NEW ELECTIONS.
INSTEAD WHAT THE BROTHERHOOD HAS
BEEN DOING IS HAVING
DEMONSTRATIONS AND RALLIES
AGAINST MORSI'S OUSTER AND
PEOPLE HAVE BEEN KILLED IN THE
LAST THREE WEEKS.
I SAW THE EGYPTIAN AMBASSADOR
WHO SAID TO ME WE ARE TRYING TO
SEND A POLITICAL MESSAGE TO THE
BROTHERHOOD THAT THEIR SUPPORT
HAS SHRUNK AND THEY NEED TO COME
INTO THIS PROCESS.
BUT TO PEOPLE IN THE BROTHERHOOD
AND PEOPLE ON THE OSIDUTE IT
LOOKS LIKETHE  MILITARY MAY BE
LOOKING FAR MANDATE TO CRACK
DOWN VIOLENTLY ON WHAT THEY CALL
VIOLENCE AND TERRORISM.
I MEAN, STATE MEDIA'S BEEN
CALLING THE BROTHERHOOD
TERRORISTS.
SO I THINK WE'LL KNOW FRANKLY IN
THE NEXT FEW DAYS OR WEEKS WHICH
INTERPRETATION IS RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: BROTHERHOOD NOT
BACKING DOWN AT THIS POINT.
NO SIGN OF IT.
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE,
MILITARY LEADERS ARE CONDUCTING
A SERIOUS INVESTIGATION INTO THE
FORMER PRESIDENT, MR. MORSI,
LOOKING AT MURDER AND CONSPIRACY
CHARGES.
WHAT'S THAT ALL ABOUT?
>> JUDY, HE'S BEEN HELD
INCOMMUNICADO FOR THREE WEEKS.
NO ONE'S KNOWN WHERE HE WAS.
SO NOW THEY COME OUT WITH THESE
CHARGES.
THE CASE IS VERY COMPLICATED.
THERE WAS A BIG JAILBREAK THREE
DAYS AFTER THE UPRISING STARTED.
THERE WERE ACTUALLY MANY PRISON
BREAKS AND IN THIS PARTICULAR
ONE MORSI WHO WAS IN AS A
POLITICAL PRISONER WAS FREED AND
NOW WHAT'S SERIOUS ABOUT THE
CHARGES IS HE'S ACCUSED OF
CONSPIRING WITH A FOREIGN
ENTITY, QUOTE/UNQUOTE, NAMELY
THE RADICAL GROUP HAMAS FROM
GAZA AND ELSEWHERE TO PULL THIS
OFF WITH GUARDS KILLED.
WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE TO CRITICS OF
THE MILITARY GOVERNMENT IS THIS
IS THE SAME OLD SAME OLD THAT
YOU SAW FROM THE MUBARAK
GOVERNMENT WHICH IS IF THEY DID
LEVEL CHARGES AGAINST POLITICAL
OPPONENTS THEY WERE TRUMPED UP
CHARGES.
SO FAR, NO EVIDENCE HAS BEEN
OFFERED THAT MOHAMED MORSI
HIMSELF WAS INVOLVED IN PLANNING
THIS RAID.
>> Woodruff: THIS IS SUPPOSED
TO BE A NEW GOVERNMENT BUT W A
NEW APPROACH.
SO TUNISIA, ANOTHER PART OF
NORTH AFRICA WHERE THERE'S BEEN
UNREST AND NOW THERE'S THISAL A.
WHAT'S THE SITUATION?
>> WELL, JUDY, TUNISIA SEEMED
MUCH FARTHER ALONG IN THE PATH
TO BUILDING AN INCLUSIVE
DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT.
JUST LIKE IN EGYPT, THE
ISLAMISTS WON, THIS PARTY CALLED
ENNAHDA, WON THE ELECTIONS BUT
THEY REACHED OUT AND BROUGHT IN
SOME SMALL SECULAR PARTIES TO
THEIR GOVERNMENT.
IN FACT, THE HEAD OF ENNAHDA WAS
HERE A YEAR OR SO AGO, I WENT TO
A SMALL LUNCH WITH HIM AND HE
SAID "WE ARE GOING TO
DEMONSTRATE THAT ISLAMISM AND
DEMOCRACY ARE NOT INCOMPATIBLE."
THEIR PROBLEM HAS BEEN -- OR
THEY'RE ACCUSED OF HOLDING ON TO
POW TOO LONG, BEING IN POWER
LONGER THAN THEY WERE SUPPOSED
TO AND CODDLING THE MORE EXTREME
KRAD CALISTS, THE SALIFIES,
WHO'VE BEEN MARAUDING THROUGH
UNIVERSITIES, ATTACKING WOMEN
FOR NOT WEARING THE VEIL.
PREACHING IMPOSITION OF THEIR
VIEWS.
SO THIS IS A VERY -- AND NOW, OF
COURSE, ACCUSED OF THESE
ASSASSINATIONS, THE RADICAL
ISLAMISTS.
SAL FIST.
SO THIS IS A DIFFICULT POINT FOR
TUNISIA.
ANOTHER BIG DIFFERENCE WITH
EGYPT IS THAT THE MILITARY
REPORTEDLY HAS ABSOLUTELY NO
TASTE TO INTERVENE.
SO THAT THE WARRING POLITICAL
FACTIONS DO HAVE TO DEAL WITH
ONE ANOTHER.
>> Woodruff: AND TUNISIA IS A
PLACE WE HAVE NOT BEEN PAYING A
GREAT DEAL OF ATTENTION TO UNTIL
NOW.
SO MARGARET, TO PULL IT ALL
TOGETHER, TO STEP BACK, TWO
COUNTRIES THAT WERE IN THE LEAD
WHEN THE ARAB SPRING BEGAN AND
HERE WE ARE IN 2013, NOTHING
SEEMS RESOLVED, ALL THIS
VIOLENCE.
I MEAN, WHAT DO YOU -- HOW
SHOULD WE SEE THIS?
>> WELL, I THINK THERE IS A
CONNECTING THREAD HERE.
AS YOU SAID, THESE WERE -- TWO
OF THE COUNTRIES, THE ONES WITH
THE HIGHEST HOPES THAT THEY
COULD MAKE THIS TRANSITION FROM
DICTATE ORSHIP TO DEMOCRACY,
THEY BOTH HAVE A SENSE OF
NATIONHOOD, THEY HAVE ENOUGH OF
AN EDUCATED CLASS AND SO ON.
INSTEAD, IN BOTH COUNTRIES WHAT
WE'RE SEEING IS THEY HAVE NOT
RESOLVED THIS FUNDAMENTAL
CONFLICT OVER THE ROLE OF ISLAM
IN GOVERNMENT.
THEY HAVE NOT ALSO BEEN ABLE TO
RESOLVE HOW DO YOU BRING
DIFFERENT POINTS OF VIEW INTO A
GOVERNMENT.
>>> Woodruff: AND
WHY NOT?
>> WELL, MY NEAR I HAVE THAT
WHEN YOU'VE HAD PEOPLE LIVE
UNDER OPPRESSION FOR DECADE AND
DECADES WHERE NO RIVAL POLITICAL
PARTIES ARE -- IF ALLOWED TO
EXIST, NOT FLOURISH OR IN THE
CASE OF THE BROTHERHOOD AND THE
ISLAMISTS THEY'RE IN JAIL,
HIDING, OR EXILE.
AND SUDDENLY THE BOOT IS TAKEN
OFF THEIR NECK, THEY HAVE NO
EXPERIENCE IN POLITICS.
THEY HAVE NO EXPERIENCE IN
GENEVAING.
AND IT'S NOT IN THEIR SORT OF
SOCIAL, CULTURAL, POLITICAL
D.N.A. TO UNDERSTAND THAT
DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT ACTUALLY
INVOLVES GIVE-AND-TAKE AND
TRUSTING.
THAT IF YOUR RIVAL HAPPENS TO BE
ON TOP, HE'S NOT GOING TO USE
IT.
HE'S NOT GOING TO USE THE POWER
TO IMPOSE ABSOLUTE POWER.
BECAUSE, AFTER ALL, THAT'S WHAT
THEY'VE ALL EXPERIENCED.
I TALKED TO A FORMER FOREIGN
MINISTER OF JORDAN, A BIG
THINKER ABOUT MODERATION IN THE
ARAB WORLD AND HE SAID "WHAT
CONNECTS THESE TWO IS THAT THE
COMMITMENT TO PLURALISTIC
DEMOCRACY IS REALLY SKIN DEEP.
NEITHER THE SECULARS NOR THE
ISLAMISTS REALLY BELIEVE IN
INCLUSION."
>> Woodruff: MARGARET WARNER,
A LOT OF US STRUGGLING TO
UNDERSTAND THIS.
THIS HELPS A LOT.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: NOW, ANOTHER CORPORATE
GUILTY PLEA IN THE GULF OIL
SPILL, ONE THAT MAY HAVE
IMPORTANT IMPLICATIONS FOR A
MULTI-BILLION DOLLAR CIVIL TRIAL
IN LOUISIANA.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: SOON AFTER THE
DEEPWATER HORIZON RIG EXPLODED,
THREE COMPANIES BEGAN A BLAME
GAME OVER WHOSE MISTAKES WERE
MOST RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
ENVIRONMENTAL DISASTER.
THAT BATTLE, WHICH CONTINUES TO
PLAY OUT IN COURT, INVOLVED
B.P., TRANSOCEAN AND
HALLIBURTON.
B.P. LEASED THE DEEPWATER
HORIZON FROM TRANSOCEAN.
IT ALSO OWNED MUCH OF THE
MACONDO WELL THAT ERUPTED AND
SPILLED MILLIONS OF BARRELS OF
OIL INTO THE GULF.
HALLIBURTON WAS CONTRACTED TO
DESIGN AND BUILD THE WELL.
ONE OF THE KEY ARGUMENTS HAS
BEEN ABOUT WHETHER HALLIBURTON'S
WORK ON THE WELL MAY HAVE LED TO
THE BLOWOUT THAT KILLED 11
PEOPLE.
YESTERDAY, HALLIBURTON PLEADED
GUILTY TO DESTROYING EVIDENCE IN
2010 ABOUT TEST SIMULATIONS IT
DID WITH CEMENT IN THE WAKE OF
THE ACCIDENT.
PAUL BARRETT HAS BEEN FOLLOWING
THIS STORY FOR "BLOOMBERG
BUSINESSWEEK" AND FILLS US IN.
PAUL, WHAT WERE THE TEST RESULTS
THAT HALLIBURTON ALLEGEDLY
DESTROYED?
>> HALLIBURTON AFTER THE
DISASTER DID COMPUTER
SIMULATIONS DESIGNED TO SEE
WHETHER ITS CEMENT WORK HAD BEEN
ADEQUATE AND WHETHER CERTAIN
FURTHER STEPS THAT IT HAD
SUGGESTED TO B.P. BUT WHICH B.P.
HAD REJECTED MIGHT HAVE MADE A
DIFFERENCE.
WHAT HALL HALLIBURTON DISCOVERED
WHEN IT DID THESE TESTS WAS
BASICALLY BAD NEWS.
THAT ITS WORK HAD NOT BEEN UP TO
YOU HAVE?
AND THAT THESE ADDITIONAL STEPS
THAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN TAKEN
ACTUALLY WOULD NOT HAVE MADE A
DIFFERENCE.
THAT REINFORCED B.P.'S VERSION
OF WHAT HAPPENED AND SO
HALLIBURTON HAS NOW ADMITTED
THAT IT SIMPLY DESTROYED THE
EVIDENCE.
>> Sreenivasan: LET'S TALK
ABOUT THIS CEMENT.
HOW CRUCIAL OF A ROLE DOES THIS
CEMENT PLAY IN THIS AND WHAT
DOES HALLIBURTON HAVE TO DO WITH
IT?
>> WELL, CEMENTING IN ONE OF
THESE COMPLEX DEEP WATER OIL
OPERATIONS IS ABSOLUTELY VITAL.
IT'S CENTRAL TO THE SAFE
OPERATION OF THE WELL.
AND YOU'VE GOT CEMENT THAT
SECURES THE ENTIRE WELL
APPARATUS AND SEALS THE WELL ON
THE OCEAN FLOOR AND WITHOUT THE
CONSISTENCY OF THE CEMENT BEING
PROPER AND WITHOUT IT BEING
CENTRALIZED AND FIXED IN THE
RIGHT WAY YOU OPEN YOURSELF UP
TO THE DANGER OF DISASTER.
AND IT NOW APPEARS IN RETROSPECT
THAT HALLIBURTON'S WORK WAS
LACKING AND THAT THAT WAS AT
LEAST ONE OF THE MAJOR
CONTRIBUTORS TO WHY THIS
PARTICULAR WELL, THE MACONDO
WELL, BLEW, LEADING TO THE
EXPLOSION OF THE RIG UP ON THE
SURFACE AND ALSO TO THE MANY
MILLIONS OF BARRELS THAT FLOWED
FROM THE OCEAN FLOOR.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT.
SO ARE B.P. AND TRANSOCEAN
SOMEWHAT HAPPIER TODAY BECAUSE
THERE'S MORE BLAME TO GO AROUND?
>> WELL, IN THE GRIM SORTING OUT
OF LIABILITY, CERTAINLY THE
OTHER PARTIES ARE GOING TO BE
PLEASED BY THE FACT THAT
HALLIBURTON HAS TO ADMIT THAT IT
WAS BEHAVING IN THIS OBVIOUSLY
UNSAVORY WAY IN THE WAKE OF THE
ACCIDENT.
SECONDLY THEY'VE GOT TO BE HAPPY
THAT IN THE CONTINUING ATTEMPT
TO PARCEL OUT CIVIL LIABILITY
THAT THIS IS NOT GOOD NEWS FOR
HALLIBURTON AND THIS CAN SUPPORT
AN ARGUMENT THAT HALLIBURTON WAS
GROSSLY NEGNT
THAT WE, SAY B.P. OR TRANSOCEAN,
WE MAY HAVE MADE MISTAKES WHICH
CERTAINLY B.P. HAS ADMITTED BUT
OUR MISTAKES WERE NOT THE
CENTRAL PROXIMATE CAUSE FOR THE
DISASTER.
>> Sreenivasan: LET'S TALK A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT THIS $200,000
FINE.
IT SEEMS LIKE A PRETTY SMALL
AMOUNT FOR HALLIBURTON.
AND NOT BY COINCIDENCE A $55
MILLION CONTRIBUTION TO THE
NATIONAL FISH AND WILDLIFE
FOUNDATION.
>> YEAH, WELL, $200,000 TO A
COMPANY THAT HAS ANNUAL REVENUES
OF $29 BILLION IS OBVIOUSLY
POCKET CHANGE.
EVEN $55 MILLION AS A SO-CALLED
VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTION TO AN
ORGANIZATION WHICH WILL HELP
CLEAN UP AND SECURE THE GULF
ENVIRONMENTALLY IN THE FUTURE IS
NOT A TERRIBLE BLOW AT ALL.
THE REASON THIS IS SIGNIFICANT
IS BECAUSE IT IS ADMISSION ON
HALLIBURTON'S PART THAT IT WAS
TRYING TO COVER SOMETHING UP.
AND THAT WILL PLAY OUT IN THE
CONTINUING CIVIL TRIAL IN WHICH
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS SUING
ALL THREE COMPANIES AND A
FEDERAL JUDGE IN NEW ORLEANS IS
IN THE EXTRAORDINARY POSITION OF
ON HIS OWN WITHOUT A JURY AND
WITHOUT ANYONE ELSE TELLING HIM
WHAT WHAT TO DO TO APPORTION THE
BLAME AMONG THE THREE COMPANIES.
AND IF HE DETERMINES, FOR
EXAMPLE, THAT B.P. IS MERELY
NEGLIGENT IN AN ORDINARY SENSE
YOU'LL GET A SMALL NUMBER OF
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS THAT B.P.
WILL OWE.
IF B.P. IS DETERMINED TO BE
GROSSLY NEGLIGENT, YOU'RE
TALKING ABOUT $17 BILLION OR
MORE AT THE HIGH END.
AND NOW B.P.AS H A STRONGER
ARGUMENT TODAY THAN IT DID A FEW
DAYS AGO THAT JUDGE, POINT THE
FINGER OF BLAME AT OUR
COLLEAGUES OVER HERE,
HALLIBURTON.
>> Sreenivasan: SO FINALLY IN
BRIEF, WHAT ABOUT THE CIVIL
ACTIONS?
THE FAMILIES OF THOSE RIG
ER KILLED?
>> MOST OF THE CIVIL -- THE
INDIVIDUAL ACTIONS IN TERMS OF
THE WRONGFUL DEATH ACTIONS FOR
THE 11 MEN WHO WERE KILLED AND
THE DOZENS OF OTHER PEOPLE
INJURED, MOST HAVE BEEN RESOLVED
AND THOSE ARE NEVER THE
BIG-DOLLAR ISSUES.
B.P. HAS ALREADY PAID OUT $25
BILLION IN COMBINATION OF
CLEANUP AND DAMAGE CLAIMS AND
FACES, AS WE SAID A MOMENT AGO,
PERHAPS $17 BILLION OR MORE
ADDITIONAL LIABILITY.
THOSE ARE THE BIG DOLLAR
NUMBERS.
THE ECONOMIC DAMAGES AND THE
CLEANUP COSTS.
>> Sreenivasan: PAUL BARRETT,
BLOOMBERG BUSINESS WEEK, THANKS
VERY MUCH.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Brown: NEXT TO JAPAN, WHERE
THE RUINED FUKUSHIMA DAI-ICHI
NUCLEAR PLANT HAS BEEN LEAKING
CONTAMINATED UNDERGROUND WATER
INTO THE SEA, MORE THAN TWO
YEARS AFTER THE EARTHQUAKE AND
TSUNAMI.
TODAY, OFFICIALS AT TOKYO
ELECTRIC POWER ADMITTED THEY
DELAYED RELEASING THAT
INFORMATION, SAYING THEY DIDN'T
WANT TO WORRY THE PUBLIC.
MEANWHILE, THE AREA AROUND THE
PLANT REMAINS DESERTED.
BUT ALEX THOMSON OF "INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS" GOT BRIEF AND
RARE ACCESS.
>> Reporter: FEW PEOPLE EVER
GET IN TO THE FUKUSHIMA
EXCLUSION ZONE.
NOBODY GETS IN WITHOUT
PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT AND
"HERE'S THE RADIO TO KEEP IN
CONTACT" SHE'S TELLING US.
MONITORING EQUIPMENT FOR
RADIOACTIVITY COMES NEXT.
THEN OFF, OUT, TO THE FINAL
POLICE CHECKPOINT.
WE PULL IN JUST INSIDE THE
EXCLUSION ZONE TO SUIT UP.
IT'S BECOMING A WAY OF LIFE
AROUND HERE.
THE COMPANY THAT RUNS GIVEN US
FIVE HOURS IN THE ZONE WITH A
RADIO TO KEEP IN CONTACT WITH
US, LET US KNOW WHEN OUR TIME'S
UP.
THE REGALIA IN WHICH I'M NOW
STANDING, INCLUDING THIS, A
METER WHICH WILL GIVE MY
ACCUMULATED RADIATION DOSE
ACROSS THE TIME THAT WE'RE
INSIDE THE EXCLUSION ZONE.
WE'VE COME HERE WITH ANTHONY
BALLARD, WHO USED TO LIVE IN THE
TOWN WHICH HOUSES THE GIANT
NUCLEAR PLANT, AS DID HIS FRIEND
AND FELLOW ENGLISH TEACHER
PHILLIP JELLYMAN.
RUBBLE FROM THE QUAKE STAYS JUST
WHERE IT FELL.
, FRINGED NOW WITH WEEDS.
THE CLOCK ON THE MAIN STREET
STOPPED AT 2:46, THE SECOND THE
FIRST TREMORS SHATTERED THIS
REGION ON MARCH 11, 2011.
THE TOWN SHRINE LURCHES AFTER
THE QUAKE, SOMEONE'S BEEN BACK
AT SOME POINT TO TRY AND SAVE IT
WITH ROPES.
GOOD LUCK MESSAGES TO THE GODS
FOR THE UNLUCKIEST OF TOWNS
AFTER A QUAKE, A TSUNAMI, AND
RADIATION.
THE STUDENTS WHO WERE AT THE
SCHOOL THAT DAY HAVE NEVER SEEN
THEIR HOUSES.
>> NEVER SEEN IT SINCE THE
DISASTER.
>> THEY WERE EVACUATED VERY
EARLY ON MARCH 12 AND THEY'VE
NEVER SEEN THEIR HOUSES SINCE.
>> Reporter: WHY IS THAT?
WHY CAN'T THE KIDS COME BACK?
WHAT'S THE REASON FOR THAT?
>> IT'S TO DO WITH ABSORPTION
RATES OF RADIATION.
CHILDREN ARE MORE VULNERABLE TO
IT.
>> Reporter: INITIALLY,
PHILLIP AND ANTHONY WERE ONLY
ALLOWED BACK HERE FOR AN HOUR A
MONTH.
NOW WE HAVE FIVE, AND IN THAT
TIME WE'LL ACCUMULATE ABOUT
MICRO SAO +*EFRT OF RADIATION FR
EVERY HOUR WE'RE HERE.
SIEVERT.
>> 1.67.
>> Reporter: OUR CONTAMINATION
ADVISOR SAYS THAT'S A SAFE
AMOUNT FOR A FEW HOURS BUT
LIVING HERE WOULD VASTLY
INCREASE THE LIKELIHOOD OF
CANCERS.
RETURNING TO THE TOWN STIRS
PAINFUL MEMORIES OF A LIFE
BRUTALLY HALTED.
THIS IS THE MAIN STREET,
BASICALLY, AND JUST DOWN THERE
ON THE LEFT IS THE BUTCHER SHOP.
>> Reporter: THEY DON'T KNOW
WHAT BECAME OF THE BUTCHER OR
HIS FAMILY.
ACTUALLY REVISITING HIS HOUSE IS
NOT COMFORTABLE.
>> OKAY, SO THIS IS MY HOUSE
HERE.
>> Reporter: BUT BOTH
ENGLISHMEN ARE NOW ON SOMETHING
OF A MISSION FOR THEIR JAPANESE
FRIENDS.
>> I LIKE TO CHRONICLE THE TOWN,
I LIKE TO RECORD IT AND SOME OF
THE PEOPLE FROM THE TOWN HAVE
SAID KEEP TAKING PICTURES.
>> Reporter: IN HERE YOU SEE
WHY THE AUTHORITIES OFFERED US
RAT POISON AS WELL AS RADIATION
PROTECTION EQUIPMENT.
RATS, DOGS, CAT AND BIRD FECES
ALL OVER THE PLACE.
ANIMALS MOVED IN AS PEOPLE MOVED
OUT.
NATURE IS TAKING OVER HERE.
THE EMPTY RAILWAY TRACKS TURNING
GREEN.
AT THE TICKET OFFICE, A POLITE
NOTICE "SORRY WE'RE AWAY, WE'LL
BE BACK HERE SOON."
THAT WAS TWO AND A HALF YEARS
AGO.
ARRIVING FROM THIS PLATFORM AND,
INDEED, DEPARTING, ABSOLUTELY NO
TRAINS, OF COURSE, FOR WELL OVER
TWO YEARS NOW.
THIS PLACE, THIS STATION, LIKE
THE WHOLE TOWN, WEIRDLY FROZEN
IN TIME.
RIGHT DOWN TO THE NEWSPAPERS ON
THE STAND ON THAT FATEFUL DAY.
AND OUTSIDE THE STATION, THE
UNNERVING SILENCE OF A
RADIOACTIVE TOWN.
WHAT DO YOU THINK?
YOU THINK YOU'LL EVER COME BACK
AND LIVE HERE?
>> THIS THIS HOUSE?
NO.
>> Reporter: IN THIS TOWN.
>> IN THIS TOWN?
I'M STILL A YOUNG MAN.
I MIGHT BE ABLE TO DO IT AT SOME
POINT.
>> Reporter: WOULD YOU LIKE
TO?
>> I'D LIKE TO.
I'D LIKE TO STAY WITH THE TOWN
AS LONG AS POSSIBLE AND IF ONE
DAY THEY WERE TO COME BACK HERE
I'D LIKE TO COMEWITH  THEM.
>> YOU'VE A GREAT ATTACHMENT,
HAVEN'T YOU, TO THE PLACE AND
ITS PEOPLE?
WHICH IS WHY THEY VISIT
RADIATION HOT SPOTS IN THE TOWN
TO GATHER DATA.
>> SO THE LAST TIME I WAS HERE
IT
THIS, ACTUALLY.
AND I WALKED OVER THERE AND IT
SHOT UP.
SO OVER THERE SHOULD BE A HOT
SPOT IF WE WALK UP HERE.
>> Reporter: SO LITERALLY A
FEW YARDS MAKE A DIFFERENCE
THEN.
>> A FEW YARD.
>> Reporter: THAT'S
EXTRAORDINARY.
>> SO UP HERE WE'RE GETTING 8.
CLOSE TO THE VEGETATION WE'RE
GETTING 16 NOW.
CAN YOU GET THAT, STUART?
SO 24.
GOT 24 OVER HERE, RICHARD.
24.
>> Reporter: SO THE OTHER DIAL
IS SHOWING WHAT?
>> 24 MICROSIEVERTS.
IT'S A READING.
SO THESE METERS ARE PROGRAM TO
ALARM AT 100 MICROSIEVERTS AND
THAT'S A WARNING TO GET OUT.
IF YOU STOOD THERE FOR AN HOUR,
THAT'S THE DOSAGE YOU WOULD
RECEIVE.
>> Reporter: SO IF YOU LIVE
HERE, WHAT WOULD SNAP.
>> YOU WOULDN'T WANT TO LIVE
HERE.
>> Reporter: BUT WHAT IF YOU
DID?
>> THERE'S A CHANCE OF CANCERS.
>> Reporter: IT WOULD BE
DANGEROUS OVER TIME BUT NOT FOR
A FEW MINUTES?
>> NOT FOR A FEW MINUTES.
>> Reporter: EVEN SO, I THINK
WE BETTER MAYBE MOVE SOMEWHERE
ELSE.
>> INDEED.
>> Reporter: YARDS AWAY,
ANOTHER ALARM GOES OFF, 69
MICROSIEVERTS.
THE HIGHEST READING WE'D
ENCOUNTER IN OUR FIVE HOURS
HERE.
A MILE OR SO FROM TOWN, SCREENED
OFF BY THICK FOREST AND WITH
ARMED GUARDS, FUKUSHIMA-DAIICHI
LOOMS, BROKEN.
OVER 300,000 TONS OF
CONTAMINATED WATER ARE ALREADY
HERE, TONS MORE NEED STORING
EVERYDAY AS THEY STRUGGLE TO
KEEP THE REACTORS COOL.
THE DAMAGE TO THE BUILDING IS
OBVIOUS.
THE PLANT OWNERS DRAGGED KICKING
AND SCREAMING TO TELL THE TRUTH
OF WHAT'S STILL GOING ON HERE.
WE STAND A FEW HUNDRED YARDS UP
THE COAST FROM THE STRICKEN
PLANT.
AND IN THE PAST FEW DAYS, THE
COMPANY THAT RUNS IT HAS BEEN
FORCED TO ADMIT THAT
RADIOACTIVITY IS NOW LEAKING
INTO THE PACIFIC.
THEY DON'T KNOW WHERE IT'S
COMING FROM.
NOT ONLY THAT, INSPECTORS IN THE
PAST FEW DAYS HAVE FOUND HOT
SPOTS OF RADIOACTIVE CESIUM, THE
LEVS OF WHICH WERE THE HIGHEST
RECORDED SINCE THE DISASTER
HAPPENED MORE THAN TWO YEARS
AGO.
DRIVE FAST SLIP ROAD TO THE
PLANT ITSELF AND THE ALARMS GO
OFF AGAIN.
SO WE HEAD BACK THROUGH TOWN
UNDER THE ARCHWAY OF HOPE WHICH
STILL READS "NUCLEAR POWER, OUR
BRIGHT FUTURE."
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE ANALYSIS
OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS,
SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND "NEW YORK TIMES"
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
WELCOME GENTLEMEN.
THAT WAS A SOBERING REPORT.
LET'S TURN WHAT THE PRESIDENT
DID THIS WEEK.
HE'S REFOCUSING ATTENTION ON THE
ECONOMY, TALK ABOUT HOW MANY
SPEAK STILL DON'T HAVE JOBS.
REPUBLICANS IMMEDIATELY JUMPED
ON IT, SAID IT'S NOT REAL.
HOW DO YOU INTERPRET WHAT HE'S
TRYING TO DO?
>> WELL, I THOUGHT THE PRESIDENT
GAVE A VERY DETAILED AND
COHERENT ANALYSIS, DIAGNOSIS OF
WHAT THE PROBLEMS ARE IN THE
COUNTRY AND IN PARTICULAR THAT
INCOME INEQUALITY AND GROWING
INEQUALITY OF THE COUNTRY ITSELF
AND MADE THE ARGUMENT, I THOUGHT
QUITE WELL, THAT IT'S NOT ONLY
BAD A +*ET I CANS BUT BAD
ECONOMICS WHEN THE MIDDLE-CLASS
IS BUFFETED AND SHRINKS BECAUSE
A GROWING VIBRANT MIDDLE-CLASS
IS NECESSARY FOR A GROWING
ECONOMY IN THE COUNTRY.
I THINK ON THE PRESCRIPTION SIDE
THERE WASN'T ANYTHING AS FRESH
AND NEW AND COSMIC, PERHAPS, AS
YOU WOULD HAVE HOPED BUT I DON'T
KNOW IF THERE IS.
I CERTAINLY HAVE NOD HEARD IT
FROM THE REPUBLICANS BUT YOU
KNOW I HAVE TO BE HONEST.
FROM THE MIDDLE OUT IS AN
UNINSPIRING SLOGAN.
"POWER TO THE PEOPLE" "THE
PEOPLE VERSUS PRIVILEGE."
THERE'S A LOT OF THINGS.
"KEEP THE BIG BOYS HONEST."
BUT "BUILDING FROM THE MIDDLE
OUT" SOUNDED LIKE A PERSONAL
TRAINER.
>> EXACTLY.
>> Woodruff: BUT THE WHITE
HOUSE SAYS HE'LL KEEP AT THIS
MESSAGE.
>> YEAH, THEY PLAN EIGHT WEEKS
OF THIS.
I AGREE WHAT'S NICE IS THEY'RE
MOVING FROM THE CYCLICAL DEBATE
THEY'VE BEEN HAVING FOR THE PAST
FIVE OR SIX YEARS WHICH IS
STIMULUSSE VERSUS US A AUSTERITA
STRUCTURAL DEBATE.
HE'S TALKING ABOUT THE BIG
ISSUES: GLOBALIZATION,
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE, WIDENING
INEQUALITY AND THAT STUFF.
I'M GLAD WE'RE HAVING THAT
DEBATE.
I AGREE WITH MARK, THE
PRESCRIPTIONS ARE -- THEY'RE NOT
BAD.
THEY'RE JUST NORMAL SO THEIR
INFRASTRUCTURE SPENDING, RAISING
THE MINIMUM WAGE, IMPROVING
EDUCATION, THAT'S WORTHY.
THEY'RE COMMENSURATE WITH THE
SIZE OF THE PROBLEMS.
WE'VE HAD DECADES WHERE MEN ARE
JUST DROPPING OUT OF THE LABOR
FORCE.
WIDENING INEQUALITY.
THESE ARE GIGANTIC PROBLEMS AND
WHERE I WISH HE WOULD GO AND
WHAT WOULD BE CREATIVE AND TAKEN
A INTERESTING TURN IS TO COMBINE
THE ECONOMICS AND THE SOCIAL SO
SAY YOU'RE A YOUNG WOMAN WORKING
IN A FACTORY MAKING $9 AN HOUR
AND YOU WANT THE JOB THAT WILL
GET YOU $14 AN HOUR, TURNS OUT
YOU IMMEDIATE TO GO BACK TO
SCHOOL AND GET TECHNICAL SKILLS.
BUT SAY YOU'RE A SINGLE MOMLE
WITH A KID, YOU CAN'T DO THAT.
SO THIS IS THE WAY THE SOCIAL
AND THE ECONOMIC INTERACT IN
REAL LIVES.
IF YOU'RE THAT KID, YOUR CHANCES
OF DROPPING OUT OF A LABOR FORCE
WITHOUT A DAD IN THE HOME ARE
MUCH HIGHER.
SO HAVING A DEBATE WHERE WE TALK
ABOUT THE SOCIAL PROBLEMS, THE
ECONOMIC PROBLEMS AND HOW THEY
INTERACT, THAT SEEMS WHERE THE
DEBATE IS AMONG ECONOMISTS AND
THE ACADEMY.
WOULD BE GREAT TO SEE OBAMA
MERGE THOSE TWO.
>> Woodruff: ARE THERE OTHER
SOLUTION IT IS PRESIDENT SHOULD
BE PUTTING OUT THERE?
>> I THINK HIS SOLUTIONS ARE ALL
-- SENSE.
BUT THEY ARE -- THEY'RE NOT NEW.
I MEAN, THAT'S THE PROBLEM AND
THAT GIVES SPEAKER BOEHNER AND
THE OTHERS A CHANCE TO TAKE A
POT SHOT AT IT.
BUT IT IS -- IT'S AN ENORMOUS --
I MEAN, INCREASING THE MINIMUM
WAGE IS GOOD.
EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION.
THEY'RE ALL GOOD.
JOB TRAINING.
THOSE ARE ALL GOOD IDEAS AND I
THINK THEY'RE ALL IMPORTANT.
BUT I -- I DON'T THINK -- IT'S
NOT LET'S MARGE.
AND IT'S TOUGH, LET'S BE BLUNT
ABOUT IT.
IT'S TOUGH FOR A PRESIDENT IN
THIS ENVIRONMENT 24/7 ALL THE
REST OF IT FOR A PRESIDENTIAL
SPEECH TO BREAK THROUGH.
I MEAN, YOU KNOW, IT REALLY IS
-- IT ISN'T LIKE WHEN I WAS
YOUNG OR EVEN WHEN DAVID WAS
YOUNG WHEN A PRESIDENT SPOKE I
MEAN, IT KIND OF COMMANDED THE
ATTENTION OF THE NATION.
AND I THINK IT'S TOUGH TO DO
THAT.
>> I REMEMBER WHEN I WAS YOUNG
AND GEORGE W. BUSH WAS SPEAKING.
>> THAT'S RIGHT, THAT'S RIGHT.
AS OPPOSED TO WOODROW WILSON.
>> Woodruff: BUT IS IT A
MATTER OF NOT HAVING A SOLUTION
OR NOT GETTING COOPERATION FROM
THE OTHER PARTY?
WHERE -- WHERE IS THE -- WHAT'S
MISSING?
>> WELL, I DON'T BLAME THE
PRESIDENT FOR THIS.
IF YOU GO BACK -- THERE ARE
MOMENTS OF BIG ECONOMIC
TRANSITIONS.
SO THE REGRESSIVE ERA IN THE
19th CENTURY BEGINNING IN
THE 20th WAS A SIMILAR
MOMENT OF TRANSITION AND YOU HAD
THIS CONCENTRATION OF POWER AND
CERTAIN TRUSTS AND CORPORATIONS.
IT TOOK THE PROGRESSIVE MOVEMENT
TO COME UP WITH INTELLECTUAL
SOLUTION.
WHICH CAME UP WITH
PROGRESSIVISM, A SIMILAR
SOLUTION.
WE'RE AT A SIMILAR MOMENT.
I WOULD NOT SAY THERE'S BEEN A
MOVEMENT LIKE THE REGRESSIVE
MOVEMENT WHICH EVEN HAS A
SOLUTION, WHICH HAS AN ADEQUATE
DESCRIPTION AND SO IT'S TOUGH TO
ASK A PRESIDENT AND HIS STAFF TO
COME UP WITH THAT WHICH
ECONOMISTS AND ACADEMICS HAVE
NOT DONE.
AND PART OF THE PROBLEM, AS I
TRIED TO INDICATE EARLIER, IT'S
NOT SIMPLY AN ECONOMIC PROBLEM,
IT'S A SOCIAL PROBLEM.
IT HAS TO DO WITH SOCIAL
STRUCTURES AND FAMILY
STRUCTURES.
UNTIL THOSE ANSWERS COME -L UP
FROM THE WORLD OF IDEAS, IT'S
HARD FOR A PRESIDENT TO COME UP
WITH THEM ON HIS OWN.
HE'S TOO BUSY.
>> AND BEING VERY BLUNT, THE
OTHER SIDE WOULD PREFER TO SAY
MORE OFTEN THAN NOT "IT'S ALL A
CULTURE PROBLEM.
IT'S ALL MORALITY."
AND IT ISN'T.
THERE'S A -- THE MEDIAN FAMILY
INCOME, HOUSEHOLD INCOME IN THIS
COUNTRY IS 9% BELOW WHAT IT WAS
IN 1999.
AND THAT WAS THE HIGHEST IT'S
EVER BEEN.
AND WE'RE SEEING A GREATER
CONCENTRATION IN THE TOP 1%.
THIS IS THE INEQUALITY.
WHAT WE'VE LEARNED IS THAT TOP
1% CAN'T DRIVE THE ECONOMY AND
THE NATIONAL ECONOMY WITHOUT A
MIDDLE-CLASS THAT IS VITAL AND
VIBRANT AND GROWING.
>> THE PRESIDENT DID TAKE SOME
SHOTS A PRESIDENT REPUBLICANS,
HE SAID THEY'RE NOT COOPERATING.
I HAPPENED TO BE INTERVIEWING
HARRY REID THIS WEEK WHO SAID
THAT HE'S OPTIMISTIC THAT THE
MAINSTREAM REPUBLICANS ARE GOING
TO SRTTA COOPERATING.
THAT THEY'RE JUST -- THEY'RE
GOING TO BE ABLE TO WORK THROUGH
THEIR DIFFICULTIES WITH THE TEA
PARTY.
HOW DO YOU SEE THAT?
>> I WOULDN'T -- HE WAS QUITE
OPTIMISTIC AND MAYBE THAT'S HIS
JOB AND HE WANTS TO TALK HIMSELF
INTO WAKING UP IN THE MORNING
AND GOING TO THE SENATE.
I WOULD BE MODERATELY -- A
LITTLE OPTIMISTIC.
I DO THINK THERE HAS BEEN A
RECOIL AMONG SENATE REPUBLICANS
AWAY FROM WHAT'S HAPPENING IN
THE HOUSE AND AWAY FROM A LITTLE
OF THE DIRECTION THE SENATE
REPUBLICANS WERE MOVING IN AND
MORE OF A HOUSE, MORE TEA PARTY
DIRECTION.
I THINK SOME OF THE CONSERVATIVE
REPUBLICANS WHO ARE NOT TEA
PARTY ARE NOT INCLINED TO BE
THAT CONFRONTATIONAL DO WANT TO
PRESERVE WHAT THE SENATE IS,
WHICH IS A MORE BIPARTISAN, A
LITTLE MORE CONVERSATIONAL BODY.
AND SO I DO THINK THEY ARE
PULLING BACK FROM SOME OF THE
TRAJECTORY IT WAS IN AND THERE'S
MORE COOPERATION THAN THERE WAS
PROBABLY TWO YEARS AGO.
THE ABSENCE OF PEOPLE LIKE JIM
DEMINT PROBABLY HELPS SO I THINK
THERE'S SOME CAUSE FOR AT LEAST
A LITTLE OPTIMISM.
>> Woodruff: IT'S DIFFERENT
THERE THE HOUSE BUT IT'S
INTERESTING THIS WEEK, MARK, YOU
HAD A CONSERVATIVE CONGRESSMAN
JUSTIN AMASH FROM MICHIGAN
LEADING THE CHARGE TO CUT BACK
ON THE N.S.A. SURVEILLANCE, THE
SWEEPING SPYING OR COLLECTION OF
PHONE DATA JOINED BY A LOT OF
DEMOCRATS SO THAT HE WAS ALMOST
SUCCESSFUL.
>> HE WAS.
>> Woodruff: WITH THAT
AMENDMENT TO --
>> JUST ONE P.S. ON DAVID'S
THING.
I'M NOT OPTIMISTIC.
70% OF REPUBLICANS IN THE SENATE
VOTED AGAINST THE IMMIGRATION
PLAN.
AND DAVID'S RIGHT THAT THERE ARE
RUMBLINGS, BUT AS LONG AS
THEY'VE GOT THE HOUSE CAUCUS
WHERE THE SPEAKER SAYS HE WON'T
BRING ANYTHING OUT WITHOUT A
MAJORITY OF THE CAUCUS VOTING
FOR IT, THAT MEANS 117
REPUBLICAN HOUSE MEMBERS HOLD A
VETO OVER ANYTHING THAT'S GOING
TO HAPPEN.
SO I THINK THE OPTIMISM OF DAVID
AND LEADER REID, YOU KNOW, IS
WONDERFUL AND ADMIRABLE BUT I
THINK IT MAY BE A LITTLE
UNREALISTIC.
THIS WAS A PHAMNAL MOMENT.
JUSTIN AMASH IS CONSIDERED
UNPOPULAR IN HIS OWN CAUCUS, THE
LEADERSHIP HAS GONE AFTER HIM
AND HERE HE IS 33-YEAR-OLD
OUTLIER FROM MICHIGAN AND HE
BRINGS THIS UP AND WHO'S HE
STANDING SHOULDER TO SHOULDER
WITH IN JOHN CONYERS, THE ACT
GENERAL NAIRN LIBERAL DEMOCRAT
FROM DETRITE.
OCTOGENARIAN.
AND IT NOT ONLY SHOWS THE
DIVISION OF THE HOUSE BUT WITHIN
THE TWO PARTIES.
WHICH I THOUGHT WAS A
FASCINATING -- I THOUGHT IT WAS
A GOOD DEBATE.
IT SHOULD HAVE BEEN LONGER.
BUT, JUDY, IT'S -- THERE'S A
CATCH-22 AT WORK HERE AND THAT
IS PRESIDENT AND EVERYONE SAYS
"WE NEED A DEBATE ABOUT THIS
N.S.A. THING.
BUT WE CAN'T DEBATE IT BECAUSE
THAT WOULD COMPROMISE OUR
NATIONAL SECURITY."
IT'S LIKE SAYING "YOU CAN HAVE
THIS JOB IF YOU GET SOME
EXPERIENCE, BUT YOU CAN'T GET
EXPERIENCE UNLESS YOU CAN GET
THIS JOB."
AND I THINK THIS WAS HEALTHY AND
I THINK IT WAS ENCOURAGING AND I
THINK IT WAS AN INTERESTING
DEBATE.
NANCY PELOSI SAVED THE WHITE
HOUSE'S BACON.
SHE SAVED --
>> Woodruff: BECAUSE THE
AMENDMENT ALMOST PASSED 205-217.
>> AND I HAVE SOME SYMPATHY.
I THINK WE NEED TO REDEBATEWHAT
THE NATIONAL SECURITY STATE HAS
BEEN UP TO.
YOU'VE GOT A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO
HAVE NO INCENTIVE TO COMPROMISE
IN THEIR ATTEMPT TO PREVENT A
TERRORIST ATTACK AND THEY'RE
WILLING TO DO SILLY THINGS IN
ORDER TO PREVENT.
THAT I THINK THERE HAS TO BE
SOME BALANCE.
WHAT I WOULD LIKE TO SEE IS A
DEBATE FROM THE AUTHORITY SIDE.
WHAT YOU SEE IS THIS MOVEMENT
OWN BOTH PARTIES AND IN THE
CULTURE AT LARGE TOWARD
LIBERTARIANISM AND THIS IS BRED
BY THE INTERNET, BRED BY A LOT
OF THINGS, DISTRUST OF
AUTHORITY, DISTRUST OF ANYTHING
SECRET.
AND SAY WE DISTRUST THOSE GUYS.
AND I THINK IF YOU'RE FIGHTING A
WAR, IF YOU'RE IN THE WORLD YOU
DO NEED AUTHORITY STRUCTURES.
YOU DO NEED TO TRUST PEOPLE.
BUT HAVING A DEBATE ABOUT WHERE
WE SHOULD TRUST AND NOT TRUST, I
GIVE THEM CREDIT FOR AT LEAST
STARTING THAT.
>> Woodruff: IT SAYS A LOT
ABOUT WHERE CONGRESS IS IN BOTH,
THE F.B.I. RETIRING DIRECTOR.
BUT YOU CAN SEE THE LOSS OF
CONFIDENCE IN THE F.B.I.
IN THE WHITEY BULGER CASE, WE'VE
SEEN ME BOSTON.
THE F.B.I. WAS A CRIMINAL
ENTERPRISE IN THAT CASE.
THEY WERE -- SO THE SKEPTICISM
AND THE CYNICISM IS BASED IN
FACT AS WELL.
>> I DO THINK IT EXAGGERATES IT.
MOST FEDERAL WORKERS ARE QUITE
IMPRESSIVE AND ARE DOING QUITE
GOOD WORK.
AND THE DEBATE THAT -- YOU KNOW,
CHRIS CHRISTIE MAY HAVE WITH
RAND PAUL WHERE HE SAID, YOU
KNOW, THIS LIBERTARIANISM ON THE
MARK -- I WANT HIM TO RUN
AGAINST RAND PAUL AND HAVE THE
DEBATE.
>> I AGREE BUT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT SECRECY REHE AND SECRECY
IS NARCOTIC.
THE MORE INFORMATION I HAVE THAT
YOU DON'T HAVE, IT IS NARCOTIC
TO THE PERSON WHO HOLDS IT.
THAT'S NOT LIBERAL, THAT'S NOT
CONSERVATIVE, THAT'S HUMAN
NATURE AND THAT'S WHY THERE HAS
TO BE A DEBATE.
>> THAT'S TRUE, BUT YOU CAN'T
FIND A WAR WITHOUT SECRECY AND
YOU PROBABLY CAN'T DO A LOT OF
THINGS IN GOVERNMENT WITHOUT
SECRECY AND THE MORE
TRANSPARENCY WE HAVE HAD THE
LESS TRUST IN GOVERNMENT WE'VE
HAD OVER THE LAST 40 YEARS.
>> OH, I COULD NOT DISAGREE WITH
YOU MORE ABOUT THE TRANSPARENCY
AND OPENNESS.
I THINK WE DON'T HAVE IT IN THE
FINANCING OF OUR CAMPAIGNS, THAT
CONTRIBUTES TO THE PARANOIA AND
THE DISTRUST.
WE DON'T HAVE IT WHERE THE MONEY
COMES FROM.
GO AHEAD, EXCUSE ME.
>> WELL, ONE QUICK -- I HAVE TO
QUOTE MY FRIEND FROM THE
OOKIBRNGS INSTITUTION THAT THE
GOVERNMENT SHOULD HAVE SOME
SECRECY FOR THE SAME REASON
MIDDLE AGED PEOPLE SHOULD WEAR
CLOTHES.
YOU DON'T WANT TO SEE ALL THAT
STUFF.
>> Woodruff: ALL RIGHT.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT I CAN SAY
AFTER THAT!
BUT I WAS GOING TO ASK YOU VERY
QUICKLY ABOUT ANTHONY WEINER BUT
WE WON'T GO THERE.
I'M GOING ASK YOU TO COMMENT ON
SOMETHING WONDERFUL.
I WA TO NTSHOW YOU A PICTURE
RELEASED FROM KENNEBUNKPORT,
MAINE.
FORMER PRESIDENT GEORGE H.W.
BUSH WHO SHAVED HIS HEAD IN
SOLIDARITY WITH A TWO-YEAR-OLD
SON OF ONE OF THE AGENTS IN HIS
SECRET SERVICE DETAIL.
THIS YOUNG MAN HAS LEUKEMIA,
HE'S BEEN TREATED, HE'S LOST HIS
HAIR AND WE KNOW THAT THE
PRESIDENT AND MRS. SHBU LOST A
FOUR-YEAR-OLD DAUGHTER 50
>> 60 YEARS AGO.
LOOK AT THAT.
I MEAN, WHAT DO YOU -- THERE'S
NOTHING MORE TO SAY OF THAT ARE
IS AN AMAZING MAN AND AN AMAZING
PICTURE.
>> HE'S AN EXCEPTIONAL MAN AND
TOM RUSHERT, A SPEECH WRITER FOR
PRESIDENT CLINTON, MADE THE LONG
TRIP ON AIR FORCE ONE AND
INTERVIEWED THE NAVIGATOR ACROSS
THE PACIFIC AND HE ASKED HIM, OF
COURSE, HE SAID OF ALL THE
PRESIDENTS WHICH ONE DID YOU
LIKE THE BEST?
HE SAID NO QUESTION, GEORGE H.W.
BUSH.
HE KNEW EVERY ONE OF US, KNEW
OUR CHILDREN'S NAMES, THAT'S WHO
HE WAS AND THAT'S HOW SPECIAL HE
IS AND THOSE ARE HIS VALUES.
>> YEAH, HE IS AN EXCEPTIONAL
MAN.
BUT WE ALWAYS EMPHASIZE THE
NEGATIVE IN THIS BUSINESS BUT
ALL THOSE OTHER PEOPLE ALSO
SHAVED THEIR HEADS.
AND YOU GO TO TOWNS AND PEOPLE
DO THAT.
>> Woodruff: THANK YOU BOTH,
DAVID AND MARK.
>> Brown: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
A MILITARY JUDGE BEGAN
CONSIDERING A VERDICT IN THE
COURT MARTIAL OF ARMY PRIVATE
BRADLEY MANNING.
HE'S ACCUSED OF LEAKING
THOUSANDS OF CLASSIFIED
DOCUMENTS TO WIKI-LEAKS.
ARIEL CASTRO-- THE CLEVELAND MAN
WHO HELD THREE WOMEN CAPTIVE FOR
A DECADE-- AGREED TO A PLEA DEAL
THAT WILL SEND HIM TO PRISON FOR
THE REST OF HIS LIFE.
AND POLICE IN SPAIN ARRESTED THE
MAN WHO WAS DRIVING A TRAIN THAT
DERAILED THIS WEEK, KILLING AT
LEAST 78 PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: ONLINE, WHEN 'GOING
UNDER THE KNIFE' WAS DEADLY.
KWAME HOLMAN HAS MORE.
>> Holman: IN HOSPITALS NOT SO
LONG AGO, SCALPELS, RETRACTORS
AND OTHER TOOLS
WERE RARELY CLEANED BETWEEN
OPERATIONS, LEAVING PATIENTS
EXPOSED TO SERIOUS INFECTION,
GANGRENE AND EVEN DEATH.
ONE MAN, JOSEPH LISTER, CHANGED
ALL THAT.
READ HOW ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
AND IS THE WORLD RUNNING OUT OF
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
JUDY?
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON MONDAY, WE'LL EXAMINE WHAT
DETROIT'S TROUBLES PORTEND FOR
OTHER AMERICAN CITIES.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
"WASHINGTON WEEK" CAN BE SEEN
LATER THIS EVENING ON MOST
PBS STATIONS.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE MONDAY EVENING.
HAVE A NICE WEEKEND.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
GOOD NIGHT.